---
title: "GM Rob Blake speaks to the media before the 2022-23 Regular Season"
date-created: 2022-10-11
day-of-week-created: Tue
date-updated: 
aliases: []
tags: [NewsPost]
status: partial-transcript
---

# GM Rob Blake speaks to the media before the 2022-23 Regular Season

Date | Site | Link
---|---|---
2022-10-10 | [[LA Kings on YouTube]] | [GM Rob Blake speaks to the media before the 2022-23 Regular Season](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crLULiZ3ge4)

## Contributors
- 


## Players
- [[Brandt Clarke]]
- [[Sean Walker]]
- [[Sean Durzi]]
- 


## Staff
- [[Rob Blake]]


## Summary
> GM Rob Blake speaks to the media before the 2022-23 Regular Season



## Notes and Quotes
> Q: Brandt Clarke's on the roster, 19 
> years old, could you talk about the
> thought process as he starts the year 
> with starting the year with a kid that
> young
> 
> A: yeah I think we we have some experience
in on our staff I think [[Trent Yawney]]'s
done a terrific job with some young D in
the different organizations he's been in
so we've relied on his help on that uh
[[Jim Hiller]] went through the situation
with a young guy and the Islanders a
couple years ago so basically comes down
to making sure when he does get in the
lineup he's going to get the right
amount of minutes to to keep developing
I think his play through rookie camp and
training camp uh put him to a level
where where we want to see him in the
NHL and and that kind of went into the
decision process and uh but but now the
step is to make sure that it keeps going
that way and we'll let that play out
here the the first little while and and
probably have to reevaluate again

5:42
> Q: Rob, following off of that what is it
> that you saw in his game and you broke it
> down where you felt comfortable
> have him start here 
> 
> A: I think he can
play in all situations use him a lot on
penalty kill
um which which can give you an
opportunity to get the minutes needed to
keep developing at the NHL level uh
Power Play obviously you see that you
see the deception and and uh his hockey
IQ and that but also defending you know
a good in his sense and his defending
and that he's going to have to learn to
protect himself a little bit more guys
are bigger and stronger at this level
than Junior but I think the all-around
game there's a lot of aspects that that
would allow a player when he does get in
the lineup in the regular season to
maintain those minutes that are going to
help progress

> Q: Lot of depth on the right side in th
> lineup does that kind of allow you to ease
him in and you know is there a drive
from that group you like seeing on the
left side yeah
> 
> A: well we've tried quite a few over there
you know [[Sean Walker]]'s played there at
times I think we got to get them
comfortable coming back from knee
surgery before we experiment again with
the left side uh [[Sean Durzi]] saw the last
game slide over there and and made that
transition really easy and we've used
Brandt Clark a couple times over there so
the availability to open up that left
side within our defense can can increase
the getting Brandt in the lineup getting
the minutes he needs

> Q: Rob, five and a half
years
yeah can you confirm any speculation
about contract extension for yourself
>
> A: well it was done basically done last
year and during the summer there was
never really an official announcement
just because we didn't feel we needed to
on that aspect
um but yeah that was that was taken
care of their uh probably
I would say just immediately after the
season was over

> Q: And short of winning the Cup
> what does succeess mean to you 
at this time
> 
> A: progress again continued progress I
mean we made a big step getting back in
the playoffs now you've got to hold that
level and keep getting into and but I
think the roster starts to take a little
more shape you know you had a few pieces
to free agency you give the young guys a
couple more years to get up and running
at the NHL level now you put the
emphasis on them producing and helping
us keep winning

> Q: Rob, it's hard and Todd said it right off the
bat and it and I think some of the group
have talked about it you know the
word expectations what's worried
Is that something where you feel like now
the club is at that point to embrace the
heightening expectations
>
> A: I I think so and with
expectations there comes a lot that goes
with it I think we really have to Define
within our interior walls what what we
expect out of this group and and to that
you know just building and getting
better every time we're on the ice we got to
get better we got to get our special
teams better we need a lot of areas of
our game need to increase uh you know
from a year ago to keep that level but
but those expectations and we've talked
to the players and everything it's from
within we we Define that on a personal
level and as a team level and and their
expectations that we we we want these
guys to meet

> Q: On special teams, [[Jim Hiller]] has joined
> the staff power plays look a little bit different
so far what did you like about him when
he brought him in and what he's kind of
done with that so far.
> 
> A: yeah that and Todd had a big say in that
obviously uh he wanted experience in
filling that role when that when that
role became open he he definitely wanted
experience just because of the the
Avenue that he felt our team was at and
that he wanted to put that right into it
um I think on the power play you know
it's another year of of adding a couple
different younger players into that uh
equation however we roll out you know
one or two units and then the addition
of fiala gives you a different look on
that so you can see a little bit
different movement on our power play
than we've had in the past

> Q: How long did it take you to process the
> game 7 loss that was a tough situation to be
> so up and down. for you personally
> through the summer, how long did it take
> you to process it
>
> A: um I I think it was more of a building
process of oh okay we not only got in
the playoffs but you pushed the team
pretty far and we had an opportunity at
home here to to get things that we
unfortunately didn't take that next step
but I I do think it exposed a lot of our
younger players due to injury to to a
real heightened level of play and also
in a market that you know was striving
for the playoffs there and and so
everything around it you just take that
and continue to build on it

> Q: Rob when you look at Fiala now that
> you get a chance to watch him day in
> and day out anything kind of catch you
> off guard and how do you assess how 
> he's fit in
>  
> A: Puck protection probably number one
right uh the the ability to protect in
tight tight areas he's got real real
good hockey Vision there and an IQ and
making plays in that but he battles to
protect pucks and he gives us an element
that I'm not sure we had a whole bunch
in this organization he's he's a natural
scorer a lot of high-end offense and and
very creative in in the types of plays
he wants to make uh you know probably
from the red line in

> oh last season
you've got uh show any new dimension to
his game
is there any sense in your Roundup was
that a fluke or is that the beginning of
something new I mean how do you judge
that how do you look at that um well I I
see progress in those guys games I'll
speak I guess first on campy he's been
in the organization for a long time we
saw glimpses of that you know at the
times they they may have been 10 or 15
game stretches and there would be some
stretches where it wasn't so you know
the more complete uh player I I think
has come out of him throughout the years
and and and the fit within the lineup
now too
um you know with Phil I think our you
know when we acquired them it was you
know we knew we were getting a good
player we weren't sure at that level of
offense and and now
um he seems to find a real good
compliment with Trevor Morin arvidson
and in the way they play uh down low and
everything but yeah we definitely have a
a you know an expectation of Phil that
that now increases offensively
um but I think a lot of it surrounds
around his leadership I felt that he
added a big touch to that but but you
know that was created excitement that
some of those players bought in and now
we have to get that out of Kevin fiala
we have to get it out of Summer our
young guys that are are going to take a
little bit more prominent roles on the
team
I'm still in Minnesota
but when did you first kind of Target
him kind of really had him in mind as as
a possibility yeah it's a little
different situation a lot of times you
know as you prepare for free agency
you're Gathering lists of of players
that you know are free agents and and
you know contract wise and understand
that first of all you had to I guess
find the uh the need for that type of
player within our lineup and what it
would do but then there's also players
that names come about just because of
certain situations where their teams not
necessarily for agents and now now you
have to go and try to acquire it so
there was a process leading up to it
that that all teams do you speak to all
teams and understand kind of players
available but it fit a specific need we
were looking for that we may have had to
address in free agency but were able to
do it beforehand just because of the
situation how quickly
uh it was probably a well it it's a
longer process in the car in the in the
um the talks and everything this one was
a little bit different in uh the
opportunity to to have to you know get a
contract in place for the player and
that but as far as the real negotiations
there's a four or five day window where
you go back and forth um when you know
both teams are actually serious about
trying to get a deal done some sometimes
there's a lot of process beforehand that
takes place but when when you understand
both sides want to get the same thing
accomplished then then you go to work
put all the right hand
Ed wow yeah no it's uh it's a unique
situation I'm not sure we see it too
often in the league you see a lot of
lefties over righties like I said I
think Trent's been good at experimenting
or or or trying like with with the
jersey and the Walker and Clark and uh
these are good players that I don't I
don't feel
a necessary worried about having to put
a guy on the left side it's just the way
our makeup is on our team
um you know with some of the injuries
last year to Walker to Dowdy to Roy we
had to put some guys in the lineup early
with Jersey and and he took advantage of
that and Jordan Spence they just happen
to be all B righties
yeah he's a very good player
yep I had to have that with him with
Rasmus capari with Jake movari you know
a number of players there
um I still think those players can learn
in the American League I I think a
player eventually if he's good enough
and he's an everyday NHL player there'll
come a point when he's not going to
learn a lot more in the American League
I I still think we can get some uh
things accomplished out of these players
and that was our message was you did a
terrific job you've done everything
we've asked you to do so far we still
think you can get better and we're gonna
we're gonna need you down the stretch
well I I think he is I I you know
unfortunately we had a little setback
during training camp here with with an
illness there that kept him out a week
and a half and probably took uh I think
we had scheduled maybe five preseason
games and he ended up not getting
getting that we would hope so uh I liked
you know both Todd and I talked about
his last preseason game the the fit with
that line just where he sits in the
lineup is what we're excited about and
allowing them to kind of become the
player he's had he's had a tough injury
a year ago that set him back but both
times he's come into Camp ready to go
and and look to us like he could earn
that spot and uh he'll get his chance
there now
yeah
yeah no we you know I think he can be
better than he was in preseason and he
knows that he had a period where he had
an injury there in Vegas and had to come
out of the lineup for a little bit and
then get put back into a couple games
um you know in in those situations near
the end of Camp we're we're trying to
get both goalies ready for camp and and
we know we had specific games in that I
think their situation both Jonathan
Quick and Cal is the exact same as it
was last year they're going to battle
each other for those starts but but in
turn that's going to help our team
forecast the Pacific
this year
you know we've wound up getting where
they were yeah
they're they're good teams they're all
good teams and then I don't think you
know that
that part of the equation it works
itself out and everything we understand
we're going to be in a battle to get in
just like we were last year we want to
be a little more consistent
um you know as especially on the Special
Teams both penalty kale and power play
throughout but just the dictate the
style of play that we want early on in
the season too
yeah
um as he's now become a veteran like how
how is his leadership vocal Drive how is
that playing
it takes more a prominent role I think
we saw that a little bit last year
coming out with them
um
uh more so just in the everyday game or
the everyday approach like I said I
think his biggest accomplishment last
year was his consistency right from day
one and and obviously scored a A large
number of goals but but that transfers
over to okay we we need that again out
here so so not only are we expecting
that we know we can accomplish it but
but the leadership part that comes with
it and when you get into tight
situations or you get into an overtime
situation and you're relying on a big
player to step up he's now at that level
for us
go with 7B as opposed
oh
well Lots I I think the way you look at
it if you're in R12 or our starting six
which we would project upstairs
regardless of your situation in the CBA
way realize you're we're making a spot
right now you have the ability to carry
uh three extra players whether it's two
Fords or a d then we we have to look a
little bit at the waivers and and
understand that we want to protect some
of the assets and the players and
there's a few players that didn't need
waivers to go down but we also felt that
they can still build their game down
there so um and we all know I mean knock
on wood today is as healthy as we've
been in in a full year I think we got
back to it on Sunday we saw every player
back we know we're going to deal with
injuries and we're going to need some
added depth down there that can come in
and play
yeah
well I I think he had a real good
preseason last year and uh he's playing
alongside I think Liz and Quentin in
both those two ran into injuries and uh
you know his first four or five games
probably wasn't the start after coming
off that camp he continued to build um
you saw him in a slightly different role
this year I think on the Special Teams a
little net front which which kind of
fits his characteristics he's got uh
real good size protects Puck well got
good vision and everything and in good
hand I would move in place so I think he
can compliment our special teams and he
was having some success in the uh
preseason with that now we've got to
build off that but uh but yeah I know he
came in and uh and he was one of the
players that um you know when I said we
got 12 and you're looking for two or
three extras in there he was able to
separate himself from a group because of
the way he played
uh turkey he obviously dealing with a
concussion injury that uh that is
sustained at the end of last year
um and was on track doing well in the
summer but then had a setback during the
summer in summer hockey so we're dealing
with that uh he's currently in uh in a
stage of his rehab where he's skating on
his own
um you know progressing from that point
uh we have some medical appointments
next week for him if everything goes as
planned and in the way it's corrected uh
he'll soon start working his way back
into a non-contact spot in practice and
we'll go from there but it uh it's it's
a difficult situation for him and and
for us but we we have to put the health
of him first I know we want him to do
all this and everything but he has to be
healthy with himself in in that
situation before he can get back into a
practice
playoff team that go from playoff team
to like serious in the cup Contender now
because you're not going to sneak up on
anybody yeah we're not sneaking up on it
um yeah I would I would say it's tougher
once you once you become a playoff team
to be able to become a real Contender
yeah because it's because now you're
dealing with really really good teams
you know the ones that get in I I think
like I said we made a step last year but
now now we have to make sure we're we're
taking the ability to move past that and
and keep that going so
um yeah I think Todd used the words not
sneaking up on anyway no not anymore
like but but I I think our coaching
staff will have our players prepared for
that
closest the club to what your ideal
version of the club would be it's
getting there it's getting there I think
there's less and less
concerns through a lineup I think there
still are at different times in that and
there will be as the season goes on but
I I do think we have players that can
fill some certain roles and we do have
some depth in the right positions if
needed you know that that was a major
Factor last year that I'm not sure we
had
set and understood well enough with
major injuries that some of these guys
were able to step in and play those
minutes and and now we I think we're in
that same situation now we know that do
you feel like you're situated today
do you feel like your strategy for
running the club over the last few
seasons has put you in a position of
strength that you are glad you did to
that yeah I think we're in a spot where
we continue to build on it you know the
roster is starting to take that shape
um you know the you know we've talked a
lot about younger players the last few
years or not but now they're getting
they're getting some of the games in
they're getting uh you know where
there's time in the American League or
valuable time in the playoffs to to
become not only players in our lineup
but help us start winning
big picture for seeing here but now
you're obviously more tighter against
the cap than whatsoever how do you just
look at in terms of managing the cap
over the season and maintaining the kind
of flexibility that you want to be able
to have if and when in season moves yeah
yeah or well it's a day-to-day basis
Jake Goldberg runs a lot of that on our
you know or in the back room here and he
provides an update on every day and and
and where we are at the cap the type of
savings depending on which players
um within your 23 or even if you're
carrying a little bit less to save here
and there that all comes into Factor uh
any deals you're looking at any
potential deals and everything once
you're up against the cap or very close
to it you have to take all that into
consideration what was that the plan
especially after obviously at Kevin
Adrian whatsoever but you knew going
into this year okay we're going to be at
this spot we're going to be tighter and
yep no and it's it's constant planning
not not only for tomorrow or the next
day or month but for a year past year
you know and then
um but but all teams are have those
restrictions and deal within that
yeah
what about Tom yep yes he's got a year
left yes
yep yep uh well this year and next year
yes okay yes sorry
no I don't think we would get into that
right now you know I'm sure that that
conversation takes place at the end of
next year like once it went to Seasons
but
um you know most of our coaching staff
all of our coaching staff is pretty much
equal in that situation too so
there any
attention to other
than making your decision
um yeah you know we go over that
constantly if if we
if we're in a healthy situation we have
players that that may have to be exposed
in waivers when do you when you put them
on and when don't you and I mean there's
two thoughts you put them on early but
then the team can claim them and look at
them you put them on later that still
allows the team to have injuries most of
our situations was we wanted to get
through our camp make sure we're healthy
coming into Sunday uh yesterday sit down
discuss the lineup players that were
waiver eligible and weren't and then go
forward from there you know losing
players on waivers is it's part of the
process I think we have to understand
that and and when you start getting
better and you have more quality players
you'll be in those situations
all right everyone thanks

