---
title: "Kevin Fiala - 9.26"
date-created: 2022-10-13
day-of-week-created: Thu
date-updated: 
aliases: []
tags: [NewsPost]
status: raw-transcript
---

# Kevin Fiala - 9.26

Date | Site | Link
---|---|---
2022-09-26 | [[LA Kings Insider on YouTube]] | [Kevin Fiala - 9.26](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xr0ZTJGLQcM)
2022-09-26 | [[LA Kings Insider on YouTube]] | [[Kevin Fiala - 9.26]]

## Contributors
- 


## Players
- [[Kevin Fiala]]


## Staff
- 


## Summary
> Sep 26, 2022  Kevin Fiala addresses the media following a 2-1 preseason win over Vegas.


## Notes and Quotes
> yeah good first win
um
even though if it's preseason it's uh we
we it was a tough game you know we fall
back and stick with it and uh yeah won
the game so uh we're happy when your
goal there look like a giving go between
you and Brent Clark why don't you could
kind of take us through how you saw that
play develop your point of view well it
was a clear-cut three or two and we
delayed a little bit it was a great pass
from both of them and uh obviously
I could delay a little more and I swear
to go how important was it you know the
way that Brian Clark kind of Drew two
defenseman yeah to give you that space
how big was that it was huge I mean he
could have shot it he went I passed him
first he had a clear Lane to shoot it
from the slot and decided to pass it to
me so I had more space and the guy came
sliding at me so I could delay even more
so it was a great play by him for sure
first opportunity for you to skate with
Andre and Adrian in a game against
another team you know how did you kind
of see your guys's chemistry develop as
the game went on what's better and
better I thought you know obviously
first game and so yeah we will get
better for sure but as the first game it
was it was fine you know it was a good
chemistry there here and there and so
happy now but we got more on us how do
you approach the power play so early in
the preseason like I think just one
practice where you guys even made a
chance to work on it how do you kind of
go into that without that practice so
far yeah I just uh you know use your
brain and try to
play hockey you know obviously we're
gonna look at it for sure and many more
times before that before the season
starts so we have time and we scored on
the OT winner so you know that's what
you have to do kind of when you have a
such opportunity like that so and with
it so that's good appreciate it thank
you

